Welcome to the Affirming Official (AO) for CMMC Tutorial.

If you have received a courtesy email or an informal notification to affirm a CMMC Assessment and need
assistance, this tutorial will take you step by step in completing the action. We will cover affirming
CMMC Level 1 and Level 2 Self-Assessments, CMMC Level 2 (C3PAO), and CMMC Level 3 (DIBCAC)
Assessments.

An AO is defined as “…the senior level representative from within each Organization Seeking
Assessment (OSA) who is responsible for ensuring the OSA's compliance with the CMMC Program
requirements and has the authority to affirm the OSA's continuing compliance with the security
requirements for their respective organizations.” In accordance with 32 Code of Federal Regulations,
section 170.

If you are not the AO for the entered CAGE, please refer back to the individual who has notified you of
this action.

As an AO, you will need a Procurement Integrated Enterprise Environment (PIEE) account with the SPRS
Cyber Vendor User role to complete the affirmation process.

If you need to obtain a PIEE account or need to add the SPRS Cyber Vendor User role, see the SPRS
Vendor Cyber Reports Access document, listed here:
https://www.sprs.csd.disa.mil/pdf/SPRS_Access_CyberReports.pdf

To access the CMMC assessments, select Cyber Reports (CMMC & NIST) from the SPRS menu. Use the
drop-down list to select the CAGE and Hierarchy combination and click the Run Cyber Reports button.
An asterisk next to your CAGE on the drop-down list confirms you have the Cyber Vendor User access.

Select the CMMC Assessments tab and Acknowledge the pop-up.

Starting with CMMC Level 1 (Self), find the assessment waiting for approval with the CMMC Status Type
of Pending Affirmation. Select the pencil icon in the Edit column. If there is no pencil icon next to the
Pending Affirmation record, you do not have Cyber Vendor User role privilege, or the assessment is not
available for Affirmation.

In this example, the assessment has been entered and ready for your review. Update data as needed
and select Continue to Affirmation. You will receive a pop-up, select Continue to Affirmation.

Your information is pulled from your PIEE registration and cannot be updated on this screen, this
information can only be updated within PIEE. There is an option to enter any Additional Email Address(s)
associated with this assessment; these email addresses will not receive emails or notifications.

Select Continue to Affirmation. A pop-up will appear. Select Continue to Affirmation. A pop-up will
appear, review the information. If inaccurate, select Cancel to return to the prior screen to make
updates. If correct, Certify the above statement by selecting the check box and click Affirm.

The record will now reflect Final Level 1 Self-Assessment or No CMMC Status in the CMMC Status Type
column and a CMMC Unique Identifier (UID) will be assigned. The most recently updated assessment
will load at the top of the grid.
Moving on to Affirming CMMC Level 2 (Self) Assessments. Select the CMMC Level 2 (Self) Tab, if an
assessment is pending affirmation, or ready for its initial affirmation, then the AO can affirm via the Edit
button or via the "Affirm" button in the CMMC Status Type column. If the Assessment is available for an
annual affirmation, then the "Affirm" Button will be located in the Affirmation Expiration Date column.

The Review stepper is the same as CMMC Level 1, where the AO information is pulled from PIEE. Select
Continue to Affirmation. A pop-up will appear, review the information. There are also view/expand
options at the bottom to see additional assessment information associated with the UID. If inaccurate,
select Cancel to return to the prior screen to make updates. If correct, Certify the above statement by
selecting the check box and click Affirm.

The record will now reflect CMMC L2 Final Self-Assessment or CMMC L2 Conditional Final Self-
Assessment in the CMMC Status Type column and a CMMC Unique Identifier (UID) will be assigned. The
most recently updated assessment will load at the top of the grid.

Next up is CMMC Level 2 (C3PAO) and CMMC Level 3 (DIBCAC), select either tab. Once SPRS receives
the assessment, the assessment will need to be Affirmed. If the assessment is pending affirmation, or
ready for its initial affirmation, then the AO can affirm via the "Affirm" button in the CMMC Status Type
column. If the Assessment is available for the Annual Affirmation, then the "Affirm" Button will be
located in the Affirmation Expiration Date column.

An Assessment and Affirmation pop up will appear and will contain the Assessment Details and the
View/Expand options at the bottom to see additional assessment information associated to the UID. If
correct, Certify the above statement by selecting the check box and click Affirm. Select Cancel to exit
without affirming.

The record will now reflect Conditional Level 2 (C3PAO) or Final Level 2 (C3PAO) or Conditional Level 3
(DIBCAC) or Final Level 3 (DIBCAC) in the CMMC Status Type column. The most recently updated
assessment will load at the top of the grid. The record will require annual affirmations for three years.
The Affirm button will become available within the Affirmation Expiration Date column 60-days prior to
each annual affirmation expiration date and after three years the assessment will become No CMMC
Status (Expired).

For additional details on entering CMMC Assessments, the CMMC Level 1 and Level 2 Quick Entry
Guides and CMMC Level 1 and Level 2 Entry Tutorials are on the website listed here:
https://www.sprs.csd.disa.mil/nistsp.htm

This concludes the Affirming Official (AO) for CMMC Tutorial.
